src/text/download.md, before:

---
title: Download
tags: 
published: 2014-08-06T12:43:07

---

Linux {#linux style="visibility:hidden;"}
-----

### Agilia {#agilia style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/agilia.png)\
\
First, you need to enable the *edge* repository. For that, issue\
\

``` {type="bash"}
mpkg-list_rep
mpkg-enable_rep repo_num
mpkg-update
```

\
\
where *repo\_num* is the number of *edge* repo in the output of
`mkpg-list_rep`{type="bash"}. If there is no *edge* repository, you need
to add it manually:\
\

``` {type="bash"}
mpkg-add_rep http://edge.agilialinux.ru
mpkg-update
```

\
\
After that, you can issue\
\

``` {type="bash"}
mpkg search leechcraft
```

\
\
to see what packages of LeechCraft are available and install the ones
you want, for example, for Aggregator, Azoth and Poshuku:\
\

``` {type="bash"}
mpkg install leechcraft-aggregator leechcraft-azoth leechcraft-poshuku
```

### Arch {#arch style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/arch.png)\
\
LeechCraft has PKGBUILDs in AUR, so to install it, you first need
yaourt:\
\

``` {type="bash"}
pacman -Sy yaourt
```

\
\
Then, just issue\
\

``` {type="bash"}
yaourt -S leechcraft-git
```

### Debian {#debian style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/debian.png)\
\
Packages for Debian Wheezy/Sid are available in [this unofficial
repo](http://notesalexp.org/). Instructions for enabling that repository
could be found on the linked page.\
\
Each LeechCraft plugin is packaged in a separate package. To install all
LeechCraft plugins, just select *leechcraft*, the rest will be pulled
automatically.

### Fedora {#fedora style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/fedora.png)\
\
LeechCraft is currently available in [an OBS
repo](http://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=home:DarkSS:fedora&package=leechcraft)
for Fedora 19 and 20.\
\
After adding the repo, issue the following command to install all
LeechCraft modules (which is recommended):

``` {type="bash"}
sudo yum install "leechcraft*"
```

\
\
You may also want to install only a part of the modules. In this case
issue the following to find all available packages with LeechCraft
modules:

``` {type="bash"}
yum search leechcraft
```

### Gentoo {#gentoo style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/gentoo.png)\
\
LeechCraft is available in the official Gentoo Portage tree. The most
recent version is currently in *\~arch*, and live ebuilds for the master
branch are masked.\
\
To install the metapackage which would pull all the plugins available,
issue:

``` {type="bash"}
emerge -av leechcraft-meta
```

\
\
All LeechCraft packages reside in a single category *app-leechcraft/*.
To see the list of available ebuild, issue the following (assuming you
have *eix* installed):

``` {type="bash"}
eix -c app-leechcraft/
```

\
\
If you prefer sets (starting with Portage 2.2), you can select any of
the following loosely categorized ones:\
\

-   `leechcraft-clients-live` for clients for various services like
    [SeekThru](/plugins-seekthru) or [vGrabber](/plugins-vgrabber);
-   `leechcraft-net-live` for networking utilities and modules like
    [Aggregator](/plugins-aggregator) or [Poshuku](/plugins-poshuku);
-   `leechcraft-tools-live` for various helper utilities like
    [Summary](/plugins-summary) or
    [HistoryHolder](/plugins-historyholder).
-   `leechcraft-live` for all of them.

\
\
Alternatively, you could manually install every plugin.\
\
Please note that subplugins are toggled via USE flags of first-level
plugins.

### openSUSE {#opensuse style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/suse.png)\
\
Starting with openSUSE 12.2 LeechCraft is in default OSS repositories.
To install it, just issue the following:

``` {type="bash"}
zypper in leechcraft*
```

\
\
For the latest milestone of LeechCraft the *network* repository needs to
be added, so issue

``` {type="bash"}
zypper ar -f -r http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/network/openSUSE_13.2/network.repo
zypper in leechcraft*
```

replacing *13.2* in the first command with your current distro version.\
\
To be on the bleeding edge and get most recent snapshots of the master
development branch. add the corresponding repo by issuing

``` {type="bash"}
zypper ar -f -r http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:Reki:leechcraft:masterbranch/openSUSE_13.1/home:Reki:leechcraft:masterbranch.repo
```

\
\
If you feel like the packages are too old, don't hesitate [filling an
issue](http://dev.leechcraft.org/projects/leechcraft/issues/new) against
DA for a version bump.\
\
Alternatively, you can use official openSUSE [packages
search](http://software.opensuse.org/).

### Slackware {#slackware style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/slackware.png)\
\
Installation for Slackware is pretty simple: just download packages for
your architecture (pkg for x86, pkg64 for x86\_64) from our
[repo](/repos/slackware/repo/) and install them with:

``` {type="bash"}
updatepkg --install-new packagename
```

\
\
For running LeechCraft, you would also need qjson, which could be
obtained from here: http://www.slackers.it/repository/qjson/ or be
installed using `slapt-get`{type="bash"} from slackers.it repository.\
\
The `source`{type="bash"} directory contains scripts for building the
packages and all the required information. Documentation regarding using
and modifying slackbuilds could be obtained at http://slackbuilds.org\
\
Have fun!

### Ubuntu {#ubuntu style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/ubuntu.png)\
\
LeechCraft 0.5.60 and later is available for Ubuntu Oneiric and Precise.
Version 0.5.0 is also available for Maverick and Natty.\
\
Add PPA with Weekly Builds (recommended):

``` {type="bash"}
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:tehnick/leechcraft-unstable
```

Alternatively, you can use PPA with stable releases:

``` {type="bash"}
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:tehnick/leechcraft-stable
```

\
\
Update (like `aptitude update`{type="bash"}) and install *leechcraft*
via `aptitude`{type="bash"}, Ubuntu Software Center, Synaptic, Muon or
whatever package manager you like.\
\
The *leechcraft* package pulls the full LeechCraft set. To install only
parts of it, you can just select relevant plugins (they all begin with
*leechcraft-*). If you want to help us with debugging LeechCraft,
install *leechcraft-dbg* package.

FreeBSD {#freebsd style="visibility:hidden;"}
-------

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/freebsd.png)\
\
LeechCraft is available for FreeBSD-current. To install, issue

``` {type="bash"}
portmaster x11/leechcraft
```

or

    make -C x11/leechcraft install clean

\
\
Currently LeechCraft is represented by a single port file for all
plugins.

Mac OS X {#mac-os-x style="visibility:hidden;"}
--------

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/mac_osx.png)\
\
LeechCraft supports Mac OS X 10.9 and more recent versions.\
\
The latest installer is for the 0.6.70 version, dated July 28, 2014. You
can get it
[here](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/0.6.70/LeechCraft-0.6.70.dmg).\
\
Previous LeechCraft build supporting previous Mac OS versions (10.7 and
10.8) is for the 0.6.0 version, dated September 12, 2013. It is
available
[here](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/0.6.0/leechcraft-0.6.0.dmg).

Microsoft Windows {#microsoft-windows style="visibility:hidden;"}
-----------------

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/Windows.png)\
\
There are two installers, for
[x86\_64](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/0.6.70/leechcraft-installer-0.6.70-0_x86_64.exe)
and
[i686](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/0.6.70/leechcraft-installer-0.6.70-0_i686.exe)
architectures. Both are for LeechCraft 0.6.70, dated August 04, 2014.\
\
Please note that Windows is not as supported as other OSes, so crashes
and bugs that can't be reproduced on Linux won't be considered.

Source
------

\
\
The sources for the git HEAD could be downloaded from
[Github](https://github.com/0xd34df00d/leechcraft/archive/master.zip).
There are also tar.xz archives with weekly snapshots at [our
server](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/).\
\
If you want the last bleeding-edge LeechCraft, you could always [build
from source](development-building-from-source).

Commit message:

Fedora info update:
 * yum was replaced by dnf;
 * removed strict releases versions;
 * RPM Sphere and me mentioned.

src/text/download.md, after:

---
title: Download
tags: 
published: 2014-08-06T12:43:07

---

Linux {#linux style="visibility:hidden;"}
-----

### Agilia {#agilia style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/agilia.png)\
\
First, you need to enable the *edge* repository. For that, issue\
\

``` {type="bash"}
mpkg-list_rep
mpkg-enable_rep repo_num
mpkg-update
```

\
\
where *repo\_num* is the number of *edge* repo in the output of
`mkpg-list_rep`{type="bash"}. If there is no *edge* repository, you need
to add it manually:\
\

``` {type="bash"}
mpkg-add_rep http://edge.agilialinux.ru
mpkg-update
```

\
\
After that, you can issue\
\

``` {type="bash"}
mpkg search leechcraft
```

\
\
to see what packages of LeechCraft are available and install the ones
you want, for example, for Aggregator, Azoth and Poshuku:\
\

``` {type="bash"}
mpkg install leechcraft-aggregator leechcraft-azoth leechcraft-poshuku
```

### Arch {#arch style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/arch.png)\
\
LeechCraft has PKGBUILDs in AUR, so to install it, you first need
yaourt:\
\

``` {type="bash"}
pacman -Sy yaourt
```

\
\
Then, just issue\
\

``` {type="bash"}
yaourt -S leechcraft-git
```

### Debian {#debian style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/debian.png)\
\
Packages for Debian Wheezy/Sid are available in [this unofficial
repo](http://notesalexp.org/). Instructions for enabling that repository
could be found on the linked page.\
\
Each LeechCraft plugin is packaged in a separate package. To install all
LeechCraft plugins, just select *leechcraft*, the rest will be pulled
automatically.

### Fedora {#fedora style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/fedora.png)\
\
LeechCraft is currently available in [an OBS
repo](http://software.opensuse.org/download.html?project=home:DarkSS:fedora&package=leechcraft)
for latest Fedora releases.\
\
After adding the repo, issue the following command to install all
LeechCraft modules (which is recommended):

``` {type="bash"}
sudo dnf install "leechcraft*"
```

\
\
You may also want to install only a part of the modules. In this case
issue the following to find all available packages with LeechCraft
modules:

``` {type="bash"}
dnf search leechcraft
```

\
\
Popular RPM Sphere repo can be used to get LeechCraft packages too.\
\
If you feel like the packages and/or releases are too old, don't hesitate [filling an
issue](http://dev.leechcraft.org/projects/leechcraft/issues/new) against
DA for a version bump.

### Gentoo {#gentoo style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/gentoo.png)\
\
LeechCraft is available in the official Gentoo Portage tree. The most
recent version is currently in *\~arch*, and live ebuilds for the master
branch are masked.\
\
To install the metapackage which would pull all the plugins available,
issue:

``` {type="bash"}
emerge -av leechcraft-meta
```

\
\
All LeechCraft packages reside in a single category *app-leechcraft/*.
To see the list of available ebuild, issue the following (assuming you
have *eix* installed):

``` {type="bash"}
eix -c app-leechcraft/
```

\
\
If you prefer sets (starting with Portage 2.2), you can select any of
the following loosely categorized ones:\
\

-   `leechcraft-clients-live` for clients for various services like
    [SeekThru](/plugins-seekthru) or [vGrabber](/plugins-vgrabber);
-   `leechcraft-net-live` for networking utilities and modules like
    [Aggregator](/plugins-aggregator) or [Poshuku](/plugins-poshuku);
-   `leechcraft-tools-live` for various helper utilities like
    [Summary](/plugins-summary) or
    [HistoryHolder](/plugins-historyholder).
-   `leechcraft-live` for all of them.

\
\
Alternatively, you could manually install every plugin.\
\
Please note that subplugins are toggled via USE flags of first-level
plugins.

### openSUSE {#opensuse style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/suse.png)\
\
Starting with openSUSE 12.2 LeechCraft is in default OSS repositories.
To install it, just issue the following:

``` {type="bash"}
zypper in leechcraft*
```

\
\
For the latest milestone of LeechCraft the *network* repository needs to
be added, so issue

``` {type="bash"}
zypper ar -f -r http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/network/openSUSE_13.2/network.repo
zypper in leechcraft*
```

replacing *13.2* in the first command with your current distro version.\
\
To be on the bleeding edge and get most recent snapshots of the master
development branch. add the corresponding repo by issuing

``` {type="bash"}
zypper ar -f -r http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:Reki:leechcraft:masterbranch/openSUSE_13.1/home:Reki:leechcraft:masterbranch.repo
```

\
\
If you feel like the packages are too old, don't hesitate [filling an
issue](http://dev.leechcraft.org/projects/leechcraft/issues/new) against
DA for a version bump.\
\
Alternatively, you can use official openSUSE [packages
search](http://software.opensuse.org/).

### Slackware {#slackware style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/slackware.png)\
\
Installation for Slackware is pretty simple: just download packages for
your architecture (pkg for x86, pkg64 for x86\_64) from our
[repo](/repos/slackware/repo/) and install them with:

``` {type="bash"}
updatepkg --install-new packagename
```

\
\
For running LeechCraft, you would also need qjson, which could be
obtained from here: http://www.slackers.it/repository/qjson/ or be
installed using `slapt-get`{type="bash"} from slackers.it repository.\
\
The `source`{type="bash"} directory contains scripts for building the
packages and all the required information. Documentation regarding using
and modifying slackbuilds could be obtained at http://slackbuilds.org\
\
Have fun!

### Ubuntu {#ubuntu style="visibility:hidden;"}

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/ubuntu.png)\
\
LeechCraft 0.5.60 and later is available for Ubuntu Oneiric and Precise.
Version 0.5.0 is also available for Maverick and Natty.\
\
Add PPA with Weekly Builds (recommended):

``` {type="bash"}
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:tehnick/leechcraft-unstable
```

Alternatively, you can use PPA with stable releases:

``` {type="bash"}
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:tehnick/leechcraft-stable
```

\
\
Update (like `aptitude update`{type="bash"}) and install *leechcraft*
via `aptitude`{type="bash"}, Ubuntu Software Center, Synaptic, Muon or
whatever package manager you like.\
\
The *leechcraft* package pulls the full LeechCraft set. To install only
parts of it, you can just select relevant plugins (they all begin with
*leechcraft-*). If you want to help us with debugging LeechCraft,
install *leechcraft-dbg* package.

FreeBSD {#freebsd style="visibility:hidden;"}
-------

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/freebsd.png)\
\
LeechCraft is available for FreeBSD-current. To install, issue

``` {type="bash"}
portmaster x11/leechcraft
```

or

    make -C x11/leechcraft install clean

\
\
Currently LeechCraft is represented by a single port file for all
plugins.

Mac OS X {#mac-os-x style="visibility:hidden;"}
--------

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/mac_osx.png)\
\
LeechCraft supports Mac OS X 10.9 and more recent versions.\
\
The latest installer is for the 0.6.70 version, dated July 28, 2014. You
can get it
[here](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/0.6.70/LeechCraft-0.6.70.dmg).\
\
Previous LeechCraft build supporting previous Mac OS versions (10.7 and
10.8) is for the 0.6.0 version, dated September 12, 2013. It is
available
[here](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/0.6.0/leechcraft-0.6.0.dmg).

Microsoft Windows {#microsoft-windows style="visibility:hidden;"}
-----------------

![](http://files.leechcraft.org/imgs/distro_logos/Windows.png)\
\
There are two installers, for
[x86\_64](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/0.6.70/leechcraft-installer-0.6.70-0_x86_64.exe)
and
[i686](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/0.6.70/leechcraft-installer-0.6.70-0_i686.exe)
architectures. Both are for LeechCraft 0.6.70, dated August 04, 2014.\
\
Please note that Windows is not as supported as other OSes, so crashes
and bugs that can't be reproduced on Linux won't be considered.

Source
------

\
\
The sources for the git HEAD could be downloaded from
[Github](https://github.com/0xd34df00d/leechcraft/archive/master.zip).
There are also tar.xz archives with weekly snapshots at [our
server](http://dist.leechcraft.org/LeechCraft/).\
\
If you want the last bleeding-edge LeechCraft, you could always [build
from source](development-building-from-source).
